BUILD.md, before:

## Dependencies

### Rust

This project requires the latest stable version of the [Rust toolchain](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch01-01-installation.html) to build.

### SDL2

This project requires [SDL2](https://www.libsdl.org/) core headers to build. SDL2 is used for windowing, audio playback, and reading keyboard/gamepad/mouse inputs.

Linux (Debian-based):
```
sudo apt install libsdl2-dev
```

Windows:
* https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/releases (Download a 2.x version)

## Build & Run

Build and run GUI:
```shell
cargo run --release --bin jgenesis-gui
```

Build and run CLI:
```shell
cargo run --release --bin jgenesis-cli -- -f /path/to/rom/file
```

For one-time builds, the `release-lto` profile enables fat LTOs and a few other build settings that improve runtime performance and decrease binary size at the cost of much longer compile times:
```shell
cargo build --profile release-lto -p jgenesis-gui
```
```shell
cargo build --profile release-lto -p jgenesis-cli
```
...After which the binaries will be in `target/release-lto/`.

If you are building for usage solely on your own machine, you can additionally set the compiler flag `-C target-cpu=native` to tell the compiler that it can use any CPU instruction that your computer's CPU supports, which may slightly improve performance:

```shell
RUSTFLAGS="-C target-cpu=native" cargo build --profile release-lto
```

`-C target-cpu=native` is not recommended for shared or distributed builds because the binaries may contain instructions that are only supported on recent CPUs, e.g. AVX-512 instructions. For shared/distributed builds it is better to use a specific CPU target such as `-C target-cpu=x86-64-v3` (allows the compiler to use AVX2, FMA, LZCNT, etc).

On Linux, the following command will build AppImage packages (requires [cargo-packager](https://github.com/crabnebula-dev/cargo-packager)):
```shell
cargo packager --profile release-lto -f appimage
```

Commit message:

update BUILD instructions to note now-hard DXC DLL dependency for the DirectX 12 wgpu backend

BUILD.md, after:

## Dependencies

### Rust

This project requires the latest stable version of the [Rust toolchain](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch01-01-installation.html) to build.

### SDL2

This project requires [SDL2](https://www.libsdl.org/) core headers to build. SDL2 is used for windowing, audio playback, and reading keyboard/gamepad/mouse inputs.

Linux (Debian-based):
```
sudo apt install libsdl2-dev
```

Windows:
* https://github.com/libsdl-org/SDL/releases (Download a 2.x version)

### DirectX Shader Compiler (Windows DX12 backend only)

The DirectX 12 wgpu backend is currently configured in such a way that it requires DLLs for Microsoft's DirectX shader compiler. The latest release is available here: https://github.com/microsoft/DirectXShaderCompiler/releases

`dxcompiler.dll` and `dxil.dll` must be present in the current working directory for the DirectX 12 backend to work.

## Build & Run

Build and run GUI:
```shell
cargo run --release --bin jgenesis-gui
```

Build and run CLI:
```shell
cargo run --release --bin jgenesis-cli -- -f /path/to/rom/file
```

For one-time builds, the `release-lto` profile enables fat LTOs and a few other build settings that improve runtime performance and decrease binary size at the cost of much longer compile times:
```shell
cargo build --profile release-lto -p jgenesis-gui
```
```shell
cargo build --profile release-lto -p jgenesis-cli
```
...After which the binaries will be in `target/release-lto/`.

If you are building for usage solely on your own machine, you can additionally set the compiler flag `-C target-cpu=native` to tell the compiler that it can use any CPU instruction that your computer's CPU supports, which may slightly improve performance:

```shell
RUSTFLAGS="-C target-cpu=native" cargo build --profile release-lto
```

`-C target-cpu=native` is not recommended for shared or distributed builds because the binaries may contain instructions that are only supported on recent CPUs, e.g. AVX-512 instructions. For shared/distributed builds it is better to use a specific CPU target such as `-C target-cpu=x86-64-v3` (allows the compiler to use AVX2, FMA, LZCNT, etc).

On Linux, the following command will build AppImage packages (requires [cargo-packager](https://github.com/crabnebula-dev/cargo-packager)):
```shell
cargo packager --profile release-lto -f appimage
```
